
 Question answer pairs anything. I just Ranfully selected like some of the generated an agonistic answers didn't pair it with the question, but just generated like some of that type of language and trained it to not be as likely to Are trained it to penalize on that type of language Just staying and this one improved accuracy up to 35 Yeah, I think that could be cheating because I think some of the an agonistic answers could be very similar to each other Yes, yeah, but I was wondering like what your thoughts on on me like That's a training on an agonism or penalizing on an agonism and how I would go about that like what I just trained on random modern books or books from just past that period Or would I ask a language model to just generate what they think would be a bunch of text from that time period? How First let me ask you like how do you I know how to train a language On period pros, but how do you penalize like train it Not to do something like how do you what is like actually the method of this? I got from a paper. I read I can try to find it again, but it essentially like instead of computing the loss and giving it Like it basically so when you compute the loss it'll tell you whether you want to predict that chunk or not or if that chunk was correct in how Accurate you work and this basically flips it so that cool it it gives the inverse of what you want and instead of saying like oh, we want this That's accurate it flips it So that it's saying even if it was predicting the next trunk correctly. It's saying we're predicting it incorrectly Yeah, yeah, so that it's less likely to select that in the future. Yeah. Yeah, very interesting Well, that's a good idea So what I did so let me let me show you My name The that to go back to the white blue because this is it actually is sort of related What I have to do to generate to score Try if I just do this again this might work Yeah Okay Okay, I should do this eventually Okay So as I mentioned multiple choice is much much stronger than Measuring the probability of a reply, but when we get to the closed models, I can't directly measure We're not easily measure the probability of Input tokens you can measure the probability about the tokens, but you'd have to do it one by one. It gets quite tricky So how do I actually calculate these generative? When I actually asked them all the answer the question how do I know if they got it wrong right because I'm not I can score some of the questions like an Knowledge question manually, but I can't Actually the task of producing something someone would have said in 1900 is superhuman. I can't I don't know what someone would have said in 1900 I can sort of Tell you that sounds wrong-ish, but um So what I did is train a discriminator a bit like your penalizing the model with like this is I train the model um on examples of a language model pretending to be and a late 19th or early 20th century and versus real with late 19th or early 20th century sentences so that it could um Make a prediction about whether this is authentic period pros or an imitation and that doesn't give you directly an accuracy score, but you can do some math To turn the detection score into uh into like what percentage of these two things Could be what's the upper bound of what could be really indistinguishable if we were able to tell them apart with this accuracy And this is where I'm getting to to the actual answer your question the way I generated those two corporate for uh to compare Was take your the masking technique you're talking about but instead of just five words I would mask a sentence or two sentences And so I give the model I give a language model here are a couple sentences from a period text now Here is one missing now couple Feeling the missing sentence and that would give me two things What the model thought was probable there and the real sentence okay, put this in the real corpus fissime the imitation corpus and now we have corporate that are in terms of subject and genre very closely matched because like this is exactly It's framed by the same context But except the only difference is this is a language model limitation So that would be one way of you could get um You could that would give you for you the authentic is not that important You just need that an example a negative example those imitation sentences and you can either generate them Your style for a guy spent it I spent like 20 bucks and and a couple days Running through the open router API a bunch of different models because I didn't want to just penalize it for being like one model family I wanted to have like some Google some open AI some So I have a bit corpus incidentally Let me see if um Let me see if I have If you're curious what it looks like like what the differences are um It's actually very Uh Kind of I think it's I can bring up an email of yeah here we go It's kind of revealing Yeah, okay So these are Um make a bigger Um Words that are overrepresented in language model imitation of Um period prayers and I'm using uh dendings like we heard it's my metric Too much about that but the thing that you will see is um Lots of uh build kind of abstract informal language and wait I think that's typical language models in general But when they pretend to be old-fashioned they they really overdo it Subsequent to the significant precise distinct properties established and you know that all this kind of stuff Whereas if you look at the authentic Period text It's some words and words And numbers I had to filter out there's reasons for numbers and complicated but mostly it's just like Much more shorter So it this it I was able to train a model that has 89% accuracy in distinguishing Um Real from pick pros So Yeah Um, I think the um I think Think teaching it not to sound like Interesting idea. I wonder what it will do Actually, which is when you've been training it on like I mean in some way you could drive it insane like don't don't don't tell my language. You know I mean it's like It's a penalty. I think it's more basic against things. It's attempted to reasoning My goal when I did here is I also trained it on the passages from the correct periods so the pages like training it Uh, perhaps sound like this and then Avoid this type of book so I've been like a mix of both. Yeah, that's kind of my goal And with the mess passage stuff that actually I could train on basically the same Yeah, I think I could I could run the same thing and just have it say all right. This is what you want to sound like this What you don't know that it does have that yeah, that's really interesting Um, could you send me that paper about training on negative examples? Yeah, I will try to find yeah because that's kind of interesting I mean, I wonder if that's Yeah Yeah I'll be very interested if you're able to get stronger performance out of that strategy. This is what Uh, this is where I find tuned Quint went by some of those On period pros I could probably tune longer. I just did it really fast and we definitely do get improvement in fact it's it's in some ways Um It's in some ways as strong as like a much bigger model um Just by fine tuning but uh But that would be a harder way To have an active example or those are results of the fine tune. This is the this is the result This is the accuracy on the benchmark This is the accuracy of the benchmark before fine tuning. I have stance for instruct Uh, and this is this is the fine tune and it's it's it's all dwarfed by a GP 5.4 which is irritatingly good But you did you find to another model in there? No, um, this is this is pre-trained This is a base model. Okay. That's why it's a circle I'm trying to find in um Uh, GPT 41 right now, but it is well it is it I have to do it through their API and it's Cute Well, okay, so what is our next steps? What do you what do you want to do next? I think these are both Um, actually like successful research projects have a stage where um You could um Move toward Polishing and you could keep doing new things like this this um Trying to bind to with negative examples. That is a that's an interesting twist Um, and I'm curious to see but You could also be not that far away from sort of polishing writing up Um, I it's good enough to put that off to too long. Yeah Um, what do you think should I do? Are there more things you want to do or Well, what is your feeling what we are there more experiments you want to run or You're so what? So Not really more experiments, but Continue the ones to find out Again from the effects of metadata to as you mentioned effects of fine tuning on the Shuffling of metadata and And I'm trying to now try to reach towards what could be put in a report Or something like a five page small paper right right something that you can drive conclusions out of yes. Yeah Yes, I think for you for your project the um the biggest challenge really is um It It may be that The models you're looking at are fairly are are down here in the accuracy Yeah, are down here. So um and I when I ran let me see if I can Find in my email When I ran from using experiments I didn't see very big effects at that lip scale Um and I did um That means the I know I'll take me a moment to find that I saw much bigger effects with permuting metadata on scale then down here partly because if you think about it What's Here's constrained generation. This is the category where metadata matters most Um these are these are like you know, I um Like for instance, I have a book from 1920 that's written published in I think one day and written by an Indian Army major about England's influence on Indian education and then I have a It British encyclopedia I asked like what is the importance of the McCullys um Involves in Indian education needless say they had very different opinions about McCulley and um so for these questions um Who's speaking matters a lot for these questions these are like um Right as such that you know An Irish nationalist might say in 1911 or write write what encyclopedia Britannica has to say about that same Irish nationalist figure And you'll see that um accuracy like it doesn't really start to get managed of metadata Until we get to about this like level until you start getting into the more Reasoning models or yeah, these are all reasoning models um So in some ways It's not surprisingly permuting metadata has little effect down here because these models except for this one which was fine tuned On on period pros except for um In general these models are I'm not using the metadata So I think I think what you'll want to do to to investigate metadata You need some way of running I'm a more powerful model um and Uh I could Be either share my results with you or um, I don't want to just give my um open a open AI Key but you can send me like uh like here's what I want to run and I could run it for you um if you want to run on something like gp41 Happy to do that to get you know sort of some more powerful models where there's I wonder if you know what you could do maybe GpOS s would be this is like an open reasoning model But it still requires two GPUs um, it's not It's not easy. I would suggest I would suggest just um enlisting me kind of as your research assistant And use sort of the experiment you can give me the code and I can run it on the API and some results back to you Um, so you don't basically I'm just trying to avoid you having to pay a open AI anything Um, but that I think will give you more More results to look at in terms of metadata permutation So if not same metadata do you think there's any other direction that Any other direction of experiment that I can take not just strictly for metadata well Some other research experiment for Can I know you? Well, what you doing with the um, the structures was very interesting um But it was more of an analytics. I was just uh, Bearing the ground truth and one of the distractors for each question. Yes. It was sort of optional We think about other things like say with the um with the smaller models What makes a difference there? I cut it um yeah, we're Yeah, you know, you're talking about it in a different context Um I'm trying to think So one thing that can be one thing they can definitely be done with the smaller models that every is exploring is the fine tuning um And there are different fine tuning strategies um Could you could fine tune with metadata and without metadata when I when I did this fine tune I did it with a hybrid because I I don't know. I just wanted to I wanted to try everything at once Which is a bad idea. It should try one thing at a time But I I fine tuned it on long passages of period prose But also I had some instruction tuning type questions where like The following passage is going to come from a book with and the metadata strain And then I would give it Then it would the answer would be a paragraph from the book So I was starting to try to tune it to recognize The dependence of style on the metadata I don't I suspect that doesn't work very well, but I threw it in anyway. That's something you could try like does Does it do we like notice we with these fine tune models the checkpoint checkpoint 3500 fine tune ones We actually do get a slight improvement here um on the more than the just the base model more than the base model On on the questions that require metadata which are especially um The question type would be parallax I want some some of the question types into a reasoning type that I call constrained generation which is like Pology and some parallel questions. We do get an improvement there. So it would be interesting to ask like does fine tuning on metadata enriched texts make small models able to use the metadata to answer questions more successfully I don't know. It's one possibility I mean I'm supposed to have a lunch appointment with Teddy so I have to I have to run but um Well I think but everything like you you're both well on the way to having reports
